---
date: '2020-07-15 00:23:21'
new: 0
title: 'Diary entry for 2020-07-15'
update_logo: '0'
updated: '2020-07-22 20:46:24'
updated_logo: '1'
---
## Todo
* improve navigation between diary entries
  * create links to go back and forth between pages
* integrate todos with Taskwiki
* Fix `;gg` mapping bugs
  * Looking into intermittent bug that causes markdown links to be placed two
    lines up
    * inoremap <Leader>gg [<esc>:silent !~/bin/copy_safari_title.osa <cr>:let @+ = substitute(@+, '\|', '', 'g')<cr>"+pa](/<esc>:silent-!~/bin/copy_safari_url.osa-<cr>"+pa)
    * could it be occurring when preceding bullet is automated created by
      vimwiki?
  * Escape parentheses from urls when using

## Stuff done
* researched how to create a template for diary entries
  * used Damian Conway's autocmd
    * [thoughtstream/Damian-Conway-s-Vim-Setup: Snapshots of my Vim setup. Open
      source, but utterly unsupported...and probably
      dangerous.](https://github.com/thoughtstream/Damian-Conway-s-Vim-Setup)
    * runs ~/bin/vim_file_template perl script
      * loads template file from ~/.vim_templates dir
      * added a few lines of perl for files that begin with dates and have .md
        extension
        * just a quick hack
* see about fixing weird output about ale being disabled when using vimwiki's
  `:VWS` search feature
 * does disabling ale help?
  * was a mis-configured vim configuration in `ftplugin/markdown.vim`
    * had `g:ale_enabled = 0`
      * should have been `let g:ale_enabled = 0`
* made improvements to how links are automatically inserted into vimwiki
* fixed broken folding by deleting old nvim views
* made <c-x><c-o> insertion case insensitive in vimrc (see autocmd file)
* added background to nav buttons on site

## Quick notes
* **ZOMG**, got my office chair back. 😁
  * base was broken
  * Got it fixed for $156. A bargain.
  * so much better than the old, stiff office chair I was sitting in
  * life is good again except for the ongoing apocalypse

## Rousing reads
* [Quantum computing for the very curious](https://quantum.country/qcvc)

## Notable news
* <blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Special Assistant to the President Peter Navarro’s unflinching op-ed in USA Today did not go through the “normal White House clearance processes,” said White House Director of Strategic Communications Alyssa Farah https://t.co/397lZGLJGI</p>&mdash; The Daily Beast (@thedailybeast)<a href="https://twitter.com/thedailybeast/status/1283390359943471105)?ref_src=twsrc%5#tfw">Link</a></blockquote><script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>
* Absolutely fucking unbelievable: [Coronavirus hospital data will now be sent to Trump administration instead of CDC - CNNPolitics](https://www.cnn.com/2020/07/14/politics/trump-administration-coronavirus-hospital-data-cdc/index.html?utm_term=link&utm_source=twCNN&utm_content=2020-07-15T10%3A30%3A07&utm_medium=social)

## Totally random but thought-provoking junk
### From [XY problem - Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XY_problem)
In 1980's "Applied Management Science: A Quick and Dirty Approach",[2] Gene
Woolsey described a famous example of solving the wrong problem. Management was
concerned about complaints that people had to wait too long for elevators, and
so spent a lot of time and money researching how to schedule elevators to reduce
the wait times. Woolsey pointed out that they were trying to solve the wrong
problem. The real problem was that "people were complaining". The installation
of large mirrors in the lobby gave people something to do, and the complaints
were drastically reduced.

### From [https://numinous.productions](https://numinous.productions/ttft/assets/Iverson1979.pdf)
* That language is an instrument of human reason,and not merely a medium for the expression of thought, is a truth generally admitted
  * George Boole

### From [Quantum computing for the very curious](https://quantum.country/qcvc)

Mathematics is a process of staring hard enough with enough perseverance at the
fog of muddle and confusion to eventually break through to improved clarity. I’m
happy when I can admit, at least to myself, that my thinking is muddled, and I
try to overcome the embarrassment that I might reveal ignorance or confusion.
Over the years, this has helped me develop clarity in some things, but I remain
muddled in many others.  — William Thurston, Fields-medal winning mathematician

---
### Other notes linking here:

---
### Other notes linking here:


[Diary Index](/diary)