---
date: '2020-07-24 11:45:24'
title: 'Musings on the usefulness of vim and vimwiki'
---
Our thoughts are prisoners locked in our brain. They never see the light of day
until a physical medium comes along to transfer them out and, from there, they
are transmitted through other physical mediums. In addition to their physical
transference, they also need to be interpreted and reinterpreted. In other
words, our thoughts need to be processed. The processing of our thoughts and
expressions of those thoughts usually strives to be as accurate as possible so
the original meaning is left in tact (though very often new meaning is injected
into the original symbol by intentionally altering it).

The first and most important processing step is done by the creator, the one
with the thought. During this step, creators somehow manage to take the thoughts
bobbling around in their heads and organize them into symbols that can be
interpreted and/or useful to others. These symbols are an indirect, physical
manifestation of their thoughts. We use a variety of mediums for these
expressions. For example, they can be expressed through our own bodies, like
in gesturing or dance; or through our mouths, like in talking or singing; and
moods and emotions can even be expressed through a musical instrument, like an
electronic synthesizer.

The last example mentioned, the electronic synthesizer, is very similar to the
writing instrument of interest in this essay, vim. Although how they physically
transfer thoughts is completely different, one with sound and the other
primarily through character symbols, they are quite similar in operation.

For one, they both have lots of buttons. They are both extremely flexible. And
they both require a lot of training and practice before you can use them to
accurately reflect what is in your head. Most importantly, they have incredible
range. A synthesizer can play literally any sound imaginable and you can distort
those sound to your heart's content. Similarly, vim is very well adapted (with
enough customizations) to write a novel or computer code or just about anything
else you can imagine getting expressed with characters.

The most important similarity I want to focus on is that in order to truly
master them, you have to learn how to be hyper-efficient with them.

...more later

## Author's notes
The above is a very rough initial draft. Thrust of the article will be the
importance of tweaking an instrument so it gets out of the way, so you don't
have to think about the tool while you are in the process of creating or
documenting your thoughts. You want thinking about your thoughts to be your
primary focus, not thinking about how to play instrument. And the more
efficiently and quickly you can both document and access your thoughts, the
better you will think.

This idea is not original (few of mine are). Damian Conway, a master Perl
programmer, alluded to this concept while giving a presentation on his vim set
up.

<iframe width="560" style="margin-left: 2.0em" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/aHm36-na4-4" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>

* Damian Conway quote:
  * **It’s such an extraordinary tool. It makes me more efficient, more
    productive, and even smarter…by keeping out of the way and helping me stay
    in the coding trance. I’d be lost without it.**
    * From [Damian Conway - Interview on How I Vim](http://howivim.com/2016/damian-conway/)
